INSIDERFLOW
===========

A local dashboard that tracks corporate insider buying/selling activity from
SEC EDGAR Form 4 filings and overlays those trades on a price chart (via
Yahoo Finance) -- so you can see exactly when insiders bought or sold
relative to the stock price.

No API keys required. Runs entirely on your machine.

FEATURES
--------
- Search any US-listed ticker (e.g. AAPL, NVDA, TSLA, MU)
- Insider buy/sell markers plotted directly on the price chart
- Filter by transaction type (buy / sell) and minimum dollar value
- Choose a time window -- last 30 days up to full history since IPO
- Results are cached in memory so repeat lookups are fast
- All activity and errors are logged to finance_tools.log for easy debugging
- Chat assistant (bottom-right bubble) that answers questions about the
  insider transactions currently loaded, e.g. "who sold the most this
  quarter?" -- runs locally via Ollama, no cloud API key needed


REQUIREMENTS
------------
- Python 3.9+
- Internet access (the app talks to sec.gov and Yahoo Finance directly)
- Optional, for the chat assistant only: Ollama (https://ollama.com)
  installed and running locally, with a model pulled (default: llama3.2).
  The dashboard itself works fully without Ollama -- only the chat bubble
  needs it.

That's it -- no database, no cloud API keys, no signup.


GETTING STARTED
----------------

1. Clone the repo

   git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/insiderflow.git
   cd insiderflow

2. Run it

   python insiderflow_app.py

   That's the whole setup. On first run, the script automatically checks
   for and installs its own dependencies (flask, requests) if they're
   missing -- you don't need to pip install anything yourself first.

   If your system uses python3 instead of python, run:
   python3 insiderflow_app.py

3. Open the dashboard

   Once you see this in your terminal:

       InsiderFlow Dashboard
       http://127.0.0.1:8090

   Open http://127.0.0.1:8090 in your browser.

4. Search a ticker

   Type a ticker symbol (e.g. NVDA) into the search box. The dashboard
   will:
   - Fetch the company's recent Form 4 filings from SEC EDGAR
   - Pull price history from Yahoo Finance
   - Plot insider buys (green) and sells (red) directly on the chart

   Tip: Selecting "Since IPO (all)" in the date-range dropdown pulls a
   company's entire filing history and can take 1-2 minutes for older,
   larger companies. Shorter windows (30-90 days) load almost instantly.

5. (Optional) Use the chat assistant

   Click the chat bubble in the bottom-right corner and ask a question
   about the ticker you've searched, e.g. "who sold the most NVDA?" or
   "any buys in the last month?". This requires Ollama running locally:

       ollama pull llama3.2
       ollama serve

   If Ollama isn't running, the chat bubble will tell you so -- the rest
   of the dashboard keeps working normally either way. To use a
   different model, set the OLLAMA_MODEL environment variable before
   running the app.


PROJECT STRUCTURE
------------------
insiderflow/
  insiderflow_app.py    Main application (backend + frontend, single file)
  finance_tools.log     Auto-created log file (errors, warnings, activity)
  README

The entire app -- Flask backend, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript frontend --
lives in a single file for simplicity. There's nothing else to install
or configure.


LOGGING AND TROUBLESHOOTING
----------------------------
Every run writes structured logs to finance_tools.log in the same folder
as the script, in addition to printing to your terminal. This includes:

- Startup/shutdown events
- Every ticker lookup and how many transactions were found
- Full error tracebacks for any failed request (e.g. SEC rate-limiting,
  network issues, bad tickers)

The log file automatically rotates once it reaches ~2MB (keeping the
last 3 files), so it won't grow unbounded.

If something isn't working:

1. Check finance_tools.log first -- the exact error and full traceback
   will be there.
2. Common causes:
   - No results for a ticker -> try a longer date range, or confirm the
     ticker is correct.
   - SEC EDGAR errors (403/429) -> SEC rate-limits automated requests;
     wait a minute and retry.
   - Price data unavailable -> Yahoo Finance occasionally has gaps for
     very new or thinly-traded tickers.
3. Still stuck? Open a GitHub Issue on the repo and paste the relevant
   lines from finance_tools.log.


HOW IT WORKS
------------
- Insider data: Pulled directly from SEC EDGAR (sec.gov/edgar) Form 4
  filings (the form insiders must file within 2 business days of a
  transaction). Parsed straight from the underlying filing XML -- no
  third-party data provider involved.
- Price data: Pulled from Yahoo Finance's public chart API (no key
  needed).
- Caching: Ticker and price lookups are cached in memory for 5-10
  minutes to avoid hammering SEC/Yahoo on repeated searches.


DISCLAIMER
----------
This tool is for informational and educational purposes only. It is not
financial advice. Insider transaction data can reflect routine,
pre-scheduled trades (e.g. 10b5-1 plans) as well as tax withholding and
option exercises -- not just discretionary conviction trades. Always do
your own research before making investment decisions.


LICENSE
-------
MIT -- feel free to fork, modify, and use this however you'd like.